Setting up the VM
Download the image
The provided VM image is around (4+GB)! So, find yourself a good internet connection and download the compressed VM disk image.
(https://s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/udacity-robotics/Virtual+Machines/Lubuntu_071917/RoboVM_V2.1.0.zip)

Validate the image
If you need to validate the download of the image, here is the MD5 checksum:

MD5(Ubuntu 64-bit Robo V2.1.0.ova)= 95bfba89fbdac5f2c0a2be2ae186ddbb

It may also be a good idea to keep a backup of this VM image to avoid downloading again if you need it. But just in case you do not do that there is a backup snapshot built into the VM that will allow you to restore it to its original state at any time!

Extract the Image
To extract the compressed image in Windows:

Download the appropriate version of 7-zip from here(opens in a new tab)
Right-click and select "7-zip" > "Extract Here"
To extract at the command line in macOS or Linux:

Open the terminal and navigate to directory containing the compressed image
execute $ unzip robond_vm.zip
Downloading a VM Player
Inside the zipped archive, in addition to the VM disk image, there are two other small configuration files that you may need.

We recommend using VMWare(opens in a new tab) or VirtualBox(opens in a new tab) to run the VM. 
VMWare provides the Workstation Player(opens in a new tab) free for Windows and Linux operating systems.

The VMWare Fusion Player for Mac(opens in a new tab) only comes with a brief free trial period. 
To use the free Workstation player for Windows on a Mac, you can use BootCamp 
(a built in Mac tool) to create a Windows partition on your Mac and download the player for WIndows. 
Alternatively, you can check out a free trial of VMWare Fusion and consider buying it.

Download the appropriate player for your operating system and follow these OS-specific instructions:

macOS
Download and install VMware Player
Download the image from supplied link
Unzip the image
Open VMware application
Click “File”, then “New”
Select “Import an existing virtual machine”
Click “Choose File…” and navigate to your unzipped image
Click “Save” when prompted for virtual machine name
If an error appears, click “Retry”
From here you should be launched into your new shiny virtual machine!
Linux
Download and install VMware Player
Download the image from supplied link
Unzip the image
Open VMware Player
Select “File” -> “Open a Virtual Machine“
Navigate to the directory of the unzipped image and select the image
If the player fails to open the image perform steps 5 and 6 one more time
Select the imported image on the left side of the player
Click “Run”
From here you should be launched into your new shiny virtual machine!
Windows
Download and install VMware Player
Download the image from supplied link
Unzip the image
Open VMware
Press "Open a Virtual Machine"
Navigate to the folder that contains the VM files
Select the larger .ova file
Wait file to be imported (may take some time)
If an error appears click “Retry”
From here you should be launched into your new shiny virtual machine!
Allocating Resources
Before getting your VM up and running, you will need to make sure that you allocate enough resources for it to operate efficiently. 
With your VM shutdown, navigate to the VM settings under the menu for your VM. 
Look for a section labeled "Processors and Memory"; 
this is where you will change the number of cores and amount of RAM that you allocate from your own machine to the VM. 
If you have the resources on your machine, we recommend allocating at least 2 processor cores and 4 GB of RAM. 
If you are able to allocate more resources, feel free to do so. 
The more you allocate the better performance you will get! 
You're now all set to boot up your VM!

First Boot
Upon your first boot you will be prompted to choose a keyboard layout of your choice. 
Once you select a keyboard you will not be prompted for this again. 
If you would like to change your option you can reset this feature by entering udacity_reset in a terminal of your choice and restarting the VM.

Once you are up and running, you might be asked to input a password to enter the VM. 
The password for the VM is robo-nd

To open a terminal in your VM pressctrl-Alt-t (or ctrl-option-t on a Mac). 
You should get a terminal window that looks like this: